It is a framework for building web applications built on top of the Ruby Language.

What is Ruby?

Ruby is a dynamic, reflective, object-oriented, general purpose programming Language, desktop & web apps

It was influenced by Perl, Smalltalk, Eiffel & Lisp

Supports multiple paradigms - Functional, OOP & Imperative, don't have to declare variable types

Uses a dynamic type system

Ruby Principles---

Creator really wanted it to mimic the english language, similar to python

Keep it Simple, Limited punctuation, English Keywords, See everything as an object, be flexible, code blocks.

Cross Platform, can also install in linux and mac, I am working in Windows.

RubyGems---

It is a package manager for Ruby used to install "Gems"

Gems are self-contained packages or modules, inside are code, documentation and a gemspec(like package.json).

Bundler is used to manage and track gems.

Gem dependences should be listed in the Gemfile.

Both the RubyGems and Bundler are included in Railinstaller.

What Is Rails?----

Server-side web application framework written in the Ruby programming language

Write less code while accomplish more than many other languages and frameworks, uses the mvc design pattern.

Created in 2005

What is MVC?---

Model-View-Controller is an architectural pattern for implementing user interfaces:

-Model manages the data, logic and rules of the application

-View output representation of information (Templates, UI)

-Controller Accepts input and converts it to commands for the model or View

So why use Rails?---

Abstracts and simplifies common repetitive tasks, saves much time.

Fast prototyping & deployment (productivity)

Vibrant community and support 

CLI Tool(scaffolding available), RubyGems library, Quality Code, testing automation, many database options

Hulu, Groupon, Twitter, BaseCamp, all use Rails

Creating an app is easy just use - rails new myapp, run it with rails server or rails s, generate with rails generate,

interact with your app using rails console or rails c 

Rails Router----

The routing system takes in a url with parameters and decides which controller action method should be run.

GET customers/25

Get '/cusotmers/:id', to : 'customers#show'

config/routes.rb is where we define all our routes.

Resource routes, allows us to declare common routes instead of seperate routes for index, show, new, etc...

