What is Node.js?

Node.js is a platform built on Chrome's JavaScript runtime. It's used to build fast, scalable network applications.
It uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, making it perfect for building
real-time applications. In other words JavaScript on the server.


Asynchronous I/on

- Does not need to wait for one process to finish before starting the other (Non-blocking). Whereas 
an apache server written in PHP would be synchronous.

- Optimizes throughput and scalability in web appliations with many I/O operations. If heavy duty cpu usage is 
expected, asynchronous is not the best option, would put a strain on the system.

-Event-Driven programming, makes Node.js apps extremely fast and efficient

Event Loop

- Single-threaded

- Supports concurrency via events and callbacks

- EventEmitter class is used to bind events and events listenrs.

Simple Example

var fs = require("fs"); here we are bringing in the file system module, don't need to install comes with node, works with file paths

fs.readfile('input.txt', function (err, data) {
    if (err) {
        console.log(err.stack);
        return;
    }
    console.log(data.toString());
});

console.log("Program Ended");

Terminal that allows us to run JavaScript

NPM- Node Package Manager, comes with Node.js v0.6.3+, online repositories for node.js packages/modules

Installs into a "node_modules" folder

npm install express (add -g to install globally)

var express = require('express'); express is a framework that is used alot with node.js

Types of Modules---

Frameworks - Express.js

Template Engines - Pug(Jade), EJS, Handlebars

Utilities - Path, OS, API Modules, Compilers

Database ORM - Mongoose, MongoJS

-------------------------

Express is a big framework that gives us a routing system, utility methods, template engines, etc.

in Package.json we can add all the modules we would like installed when running npm install from the 

command terminal.

----------------------------

Express has his concept called middleware, is a function which has access to response and request objects.

Middleware gives access to those methods and objects, can execute any code, can make chnges to req and res, end those cycles

or call the next function in the task.

Node mon, watches your application to see if you save it auto reloads and we don't have to keep restarting the server or the app.

Going over the PUG(Jade) template engine-----

EJS, embedded JavaScript, Mustache, Handlebars

look at https://html2jade.org/ to get pug syntax

Syntax for EJS to get values from our render call is <% = something %>

